README.md, before:

Golf Data project
=================

This is a mini-project allowing you to learn a bit of JavaScript (or other languages) by creating a way to view and
sort/filter some simple data. This is a very common piece of work you will do when working with dynamic data.

Some example files have been created to work from, or you can start from your own files.

The main example is in [site/index.html](site/index.html) and could form as a basis for your learning.

# Starting out

Have a look at the [site/data/ranking.json](site/data/ranking.json) file and see what data there is.

It has some metadata, and then a list of rankings with some additional data for each person. This can be looped
over to view and display the data.

# Project ideas

Now you have the data loaded in [site/index.html](site/index.html) you can start manipulating it.

Some ideas are listed below:

## You could just list all the data

Looping over and displaying the data is relatively quick to do, but boring.

![image](site/sketches/basic_list.png)

## You could create a table

Once you can loop over the data, displaying it as a table is a good next step.

![image](site/sketches/basic_table.png)

## You could make it sortable

This is where it gets more complex, and interesting, you could add some buttons to sort the data, and display it
in a sorted table!

![image](site/sketches/sortable_table.png)

## Or filterable too!

Or as a different but similar step, filtering data based on what you type in

![image](site/sketches/filterable_table.png)

# Expansion ideas

* You could have a look at using [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) to manipulate the HTML
* You could add styling to the page (it's very boring currently), [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) is quite common
* You could have a look at further data you could display / visualise
* You could look at charting the event data or similar using a graphing library
  [ChartJS](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/getting-started/) is quite popular

# Credits

Thanks to the golf API at https://rapidapi.com/sportcontentapi/api/golf-leaderboard-data for the data

Commit message:

Added a note about the pencil file

README.md, after:

Golf Data project
=================

This is a mini-project allowing you to learn a bit of JavaScript (or other languages) by creating a way to view and
sort/filter some simple data. This is a very common piece of work you will do when working with dynamic data.

Some example files have been created to work from, or you can start from your own files.

The main example is in [site/index.html](site/index.html) and could form as a basis for your learning.

# Starting out

Have a look at the [site/data/ranking.json](site/data/ranking.json) file and see what data there is.

It has some metadata, and then a list of rankings with some additional data for each person. This can be looped
over to view and display the data.

# Project ideas

Now you have the data loaded in [site/index.html](site/index.html) you can start manipulating it.

Some ideas are listed below:

## You could just list all the data

Looping over and displaying the data is relatively quick to do, but boring.

![image](site/sketches/basic_list.png)

## You could create a table

Once you can loop over the data, displaying it as a table is a good next step.

![image](site/sketches/basic_table.png)

## You could make it sortable

This is where it gets more complex, and interesting, you could add some buttons to sort the data, and display it
in a sorted table!

![image](site/sketches/sortable_table.png)

## Or filterable too!

Or as a different but similar step, filtering data based on what you type in

![image](site/sketches/filterable_table.png)

# Expansion ideas

* You could have a look at using [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) to manipulate the HTML
* You could add styling to the page (it's very boring currently), [bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) is quite common
* You could have a look at further data you could display / visualise
* You could look at charting the event data or similar using a graphing library
  [ChartJS](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/latest/getting-started/) is quite popular

# Sketch files

All the UI sketches were created via [Pencil](https://pencil.evolus.vn/) and the file for this has been included
as `golf_project_sketches.epgz`

# Credits

Thanks to the golf API at https://rapidapi.com/sportcontentapi/api/golf-leaderboard-data for the data
